First and foremost, I would like to express my thanks to Jordi Baylina who found time between The White Hat Group and Giveth among many other projects to assist me and collaborate with me on the creation of the ERC777 and ERC820 standards. He is also an excellent source of knowledge regarding some of the quirks of Ethereum and Solidity which was essential to help me gain a deeper understanding of the Ethereum ecosystem. Being a well known and well-appreciated figure in the Ethereum community, made it easier to promote ERC777 and convince people of the quality and seriousness of the standard. Thanks to his many years of experience in Ethereum both as an end-user and as a developer, he is able to provide valuable input on the design of the standard both from a security and a usability point of view.

Secondly, I would like to thanks Professor Cesare Pautasso, for his kindness and understanding as well as accepting to be my advisor. I am grateful for his support, valuable feedback on the thesis and the freedom to let me pursue my thesis externally with experts outside of the university.

In the third place, I would also like to thank, Samantha Rosso who supported me on a personal level and more importantly promptly and efficiently designed the final version of the logo for ERC777 based on our doodles and according to our (fastidious) prerequisites. I am thankful she agreed to waive licensing rights after the fact to allow us to put the logo in the public domain.

Adjacently, I would like to thank anyone who helped and is currently helping ERC777 and ERC820 advance and improve through feedback on the GitHub issues or privately, through discussion online and in person, and by donating their time. This include but is not limited to many members of Giveth, Aragon, Truelevel, Web3 and attendees of EthCC in Paris in March 2018 as well as many people on the Github issues, including but not limited to Micah Zoltu, Nick Johnson, Alex Van de Sande, Jim McDonald, Dave Appleton, Chris Drake and Fabian Vogelsteller.

Subsequently, I would like to thank Bity and in particular its CEO Alexis Roussel and CTO Alejandro Avilés (OmeGak) for allowing to work on my thesis during company time as well as to provide me with the necessary contacts to assist me during my thesis.

Finally, I would like to express a big thanks to Thomas Shabbabi who agreed to be my co-advisor and devoted a significant amount of his time to follow me and assist me over the course of an entire year both with technical and human aspects of my work.
