# Tokens And Standardization


## Definition of a token

A token in a generic term is a digital asset. A token can essentially represent any asset which is fungible and tradable. Tokens are built on top of an existing blockchain and with its Turing-complete language and popularity, Ethereum is a prime candidate as a platform to build tokens on top of. The concept of tokens is in fact described in the Ethereum white paper as "[having] many applications ranging from sub-currencies representing assets such as USD or gold to company stocks, individual tokens representing smart property, secure unforgeable coupons, and even token systems with no ties to conventional value at all, used as point systems for incentivization" \citep{buterin2013whitepaper}. Examples of tokens include EOS, TRON, Status, Aragon or Gnosis.

> TODO add reference to tokens

Tokens are the result of certain types of smart contracts which maintain a ledger on top the Ethereum blockchain and with the goal of acting like a "coin". Internally this smart contract simply holds a mapping from addresses to balances. The balances are expressed with unsigned integers. This design choice is similar to ethers which themselves internally are expressed as wei. It also comes from the fact that the Solidity language does not fully support floating point numbers. The smart contract then exposes functions to let user acquire tokens---known as minting---destroy tokens---known as burning---and most importantly to let token holders transfer their tokens. From a business perspective, a token is the possibility for a company to issue shares, securities or any form of accounting unit; even their own currency which the company has control over. Many companies offer services which can be purchased only using their tokens. Based on this economic principle, comes the neologism: Initial Coin Offering or ICO. An ICO is a process where a company will sell a limited quantity of their tokens for a fixed price before their product is finalized. This is for a startup a mean to raise funds on their own without having to go through the vetting process traditionally required by venture capitals and banks. An ICO is usually done through a smart contract which will trade tokens for ethers at specific times and for a certain price. This allows the startup to raise some capital and the investors to potentially gain a profit by buying tokens at a discount. There is of course the risk that the startup fails and the tokens become worthless.

## Standardization

With many startups creating tokens to make initial coin offerings, building \glspl{dapp} and providing various services both on-chain and off-chain to use these tokens; the need for a standardized way to interact with said tokens arose rapidly. A standard for tokens allows wallets---holding a user's private key---to easily let the user interact with both their ether and an extensive collection of their token easily. It allows any smart contract---whether it is a wallet or a \gls{dapp}---to effortlessly receive, hold and send tokens. Smart contract are immutable which makes them notoriously hard to update. Typically, any update is done by replacing an existing smart contract with a new one at a different address with a copy of the data. Any off-chain infrastructure must then point to the address of this new contract. Updating a smart contract to handle a different way of interacting with a new and specific token would be an impossible task. Having a standard which defines an interface to interact with tokens allows \glspl{dapp} and wallet to instantly be compatible with any existing and future token which complies with the standard.

## Ethereum Improvement Proposals And Ethereum Request For Comments

Blockchain projects in general, including Ethereum, are ecosystems which tend to be available as open-source software. Their projects are community oriented where anyone is invited to participate and contribute. To distribute source code and organize contributions the Ethereum Foundation relies on their Github organization account. One of the repository they maintain is the \glsreset{eip}\glspl{eip}. This repository, available at [github.com/ethereum/EIPs](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs), "[...] describe standards for the Ethereum platform, including core protocol specifications, client APIs, and contract standards" \citepalias[][homepage]{eipssite}. This includes the Ethereum Requests for Comments track which includes "Application-level standards and conventions, including contract standards such as token standards (ERC20), name registries (ERC137), URI schemes (ERC681), library/package formats (EIP190), and wallet formats (EIP85)" \citepalias{eipssite}. This is the track where the current standard for tokens is defined and where any proposal for new token standards take place. New standards are submitted by opening a pull request---previously an issue---containing a description of the standard proposal and following the provided template. This template states: "Note that an EIP number will be assigned by an editor" \citepalias{eipxtemplate}. In practice and historically the number  associated with an EIP is the number of the initial issue or pull request which started the standard. This as a matter of fact applies to all the EIPS discussed in this thesis.

## Ethereum Token Standards

Currently there is only one approved token standard, ERC20 described in section \ref{erc20-token-standard}. There are however many standard proposals which build on ERC20, either by suggesting modifications to ERC20 or adding new features to it. There are a couple standard proposal---including ERC777---which define entirely new token standards. The table \ref{tbl:standards} defines the various proposal.

\input{fig/standards_table}

Virtually every proposal find its root in the ERC20 standard. Most proposal are extensions of ERC20 and try to either resolve one of its shortcoming or limitation, or to add a new feature. Furthermore many proposals are somewhat "stale". Specifically, they have been created some time ago and either do not have any recent comment or have not been updated by their authors in quite some time. The process to submit an \gls{eip} changed multiple times. First an issue or pull request had to be submitted to the \glspl{eip} repository and only once the proposal was published as a document in the repository would the standard be accepted. This changed recently where drafts could be merged and updated automatically by their authors thanks to an automatic merging bot. Standard proposals today are merged as drafts and available on the \citepalias[website of the][]{eipssite}. This change in mechanisms is an easy way to detect more stale proposals. The figure \ref{fig:genealogicaltree} shows the genealogical tree of the token-related standards. Green nodes are accepted standards, red nodes are rejected or withdrawn standards and blue nodes are draft standards. Nodes with dashed borders are standard proposal which have not merged a document---therefore are not available on the \citepalias[website of the][]{eipssite}---and can be considered as stale or still in a very early stage.

The genealogical tree in figure \ref{fig:genealogicaltree} displays proposal for extension of tokens rather than new token standards as diamond shaped and actual new token standards as rectangular shaped. We can easily see from these shapes that most proposals focus on improving or extending specific aspects of ERC20, and only a couple standards are trying to propose new standards which solves the shortcomings of ERC20.

\input{fig/genealogical_tree}
