# ERC820: Pseudo-introspection Registry Contract

ERC820 is the standard defining the registry used by ERC777 to let addresses---regular accounts and contracts---register the address of a contract implementing the required interface for them. Within the context of ERC777, any address may register a `ERC777TokensSender` interface and a `ERC777TokensRecipient` interface which are the interfaces for the `tokensToSend` hook and the `tokensReceived` hook respectively. This allows the token contract to know where the implementation of the hook is located and to execute it.

In addition the token contract itself must register its own address as implementing the `ERC777Token` interface which corresponds to the interface any ERC777-compliant token contract must implement. In addition if the ERC777 token is actually an ERC20-ERC777 hybrid token, it must register the `ERC20Token` interface as well, and if the token contract has a switch to disable ERC20 or ERC777 functions, then the contract must dynamically register and unregister its address for the corresponding interfaces.

## First Attempt, The ERC165: Standard Interface Detection

ERC165 was created on January 23^rd^ 2018 and finalized on February 21^st^ the same year. It is a simple and short specification which allows to interact with a contract directly to detect if the contract implements a specific function. While this standard could be used for ERC777 to detect if a recipient contract implements the `tokensReceived` hook, it is very limited in that only contracts and not regular accounts can use the hook and it does not allow contracts to delegate the implementation of the hook to a proxy contract.

This standard has significant drawbacks which as it is, would automatically make ERC777 incompatible with all existing contracts, including \gls{multisig} which can hold large sums of ether and tokens and whose migration to a new contract is both is a sensible subject both from a security and a safety point of view if people are not careful. Hence it was decided a better alternative should be used.

## Second Attempt, The ERC672: ReverseENS Pseudo-Introspection, or standard interface detection

ERC 672: ReverseENS Pseudo-Introspection, or standard interface detection \citep{erc672} was the second attempt at creating a better solution which could fulfill the primary motivation behind ERC777: Designing a system---such as a registry---that given a contract recipient, the token contract would be able to find the address of some contract---the recipient or other---which implements a function with the logic to notify the recipient contract such that the tokens are not locked.

This first attempt relied on \gls{ens} and implementing a reverse \gls{ens} lookup through a registry contract. Overtime however we came to realize this attempt may be overly complicated unsuitable for security reasons. Indeed, this solution relies on \gls{ens} and interactions with \gls{ens} complicate the task of resolving the interface. Furthermore, \gls{ens} is still controlled by a multi-signature contract and theoretically with enough of the keys the system could be corrupted.

## Final Attempt, The Need For The ERC820 Registry

At this point, the need for a separate independent registry became clear. This is where from ERC820 was born. From the ERC820 standard itself:

> [It] defines a universal registry smart contract where any address (contract or regular account) can register which interface it supports and which smart contract is responsible for its implementation \citep{erc820}.

This solution offers solves the issues of the attempts from ERC165 and ERC672. Namely, it can be used by both contracts and regular accounts, it does not rely on \gls{ens} and therefore it is much simpler and does not inherit any of the trust or security concerns from \gls{ens}.

## Separation Of Concerns

The ERC777 standard relies on the ERC820 registry to work as intended. Without the registry, it is not possible to move tokens in a compliant way. A fair proposal would be to only submit a single standard containing the specification for tokens and the registry. However while developers will have to implement token contracts, no developer is expected to implement the registry, thus moving the registry in its own standard is a good separation of concerns. At most they may use the provided raw transaction and broadcast it on the chain they use if the registry is not already deployed. Furthermore, the ERC820 registry may actually be used independently of ERC777. Other standard or simply \glspl{dapp} may use it lookup implementers of specific interfaces they need. Splitting the standard in this way gives us the opportunity to make available some of the more generic work needed for ERC777 for other tasks which are not ERC777---or even tokens---specific.

## ERC165 Compatibility

Furthermore, the ERC820 registry is compatible with ERC165 and is able to act as a cache for ERC165, thus saving gas when querying for an interface. More than just saving gas, one can query the ERC820 registry to find out if a contract implements an interface and use dynamic values for the interface to query without having to worry or check if the interface is an ERC165 interface or an ERC820 interface.

### Caching ERC165 Interfaces

Caching with respect to ERC165 is rather simple. Since the code of a contract is immutable, once a contract is deployed with a given interface it cannot change the interface over time. The only times the interface can change is when the contract is created and when the contract is destroyed. In those cases, the cache needs to be manually updated, as there is no automatic cache invalidation or cache update process. This is an explicit choice to keep the registry simple and keep the gas consumption low. The section \ref{updateerc165cache} describes the function needed to update the cache.

## Registry Interface

The registry exposes five main functions as part of its interface with an additional three functions specific to ERC165. These three functions are used internally as part of the main functions but can also be used directly if needed.

### Interface Identifier

Each interface has a unique identifier, which is the `keccak256` hash of the interface name. This name is just an arbitrary name decided by the implementer of the interface. The ERC820 standard does defines some rules for interface names. First the name of interfaces for a specific \gls{erc} must be of the form `ERC###XXXXX` where `###` is the \gls{erc} number and `XXXXX` is the actual name for the interface. As an example, for an ERC777 token the interface name is `ERC777Token` which indicates this is part of the ERC777 standard and it is the `Token` interface. Alike, The `ERC777TokensRecipient` is the `ERC777TokensRecipient` interface for ERC777.

Other interfaces for private use are free to define their interface name freely but those name must not conflict with names for \glspl{erc}. One recommendation is to prefix the interface name with the name of the company or product related to the interface. Ultimately, there is no central authority or enforcement of any kind---externally or internally in the code of the registry---to ensure those rules are respected. Developers should follow the standard and if they deviate from it and do not respect it, they run the risk of their \gls{dapp} not working or suddenly breaking down.

Since all interfaces are hashed using `keccak256` they are all 256 bits, i.e thirty-two bytes long, with the exception of ERC165 interfaces which are only four bytes long. This difference of hash length is the property used to detected whether an interface is related to ERC165 or ERC820. Specifically, all functions expects thirty-two bytes parameters---i.e parameters of type `bytes32`. Since Solidity pads parameters with zeroes, a four bytes parameters is automatically padded to thirty-two bytes with twenty-eight zeroes and those zeroes are used to detect if the interface is related to ERC165. The listing \ref{lst:erc820ifacedetection} shows the implantation for this logic in the ERC820 registry.

```{caption="The logic use to detect if an interface is related to ERC820 or ERC165 in the ERC820 registry." label="lst:erc820ifacedetection" language=solidity}
/// @notice Checks whether the hash is a ERC165 interface (ending with 28 zeroes) or not.
/// @param _interfaceHash The hash to check.
/// @return `true` if the hash is a ERC165 interface (ending with 28 zeroes), `false` otherwise.
function isERC165Interface(bytes32 _interfaceHash) internal pure returns (bool) {
    return _interfaceHash & 0x00000000FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF == 0;
}
```

### Lookup

The `getInterfaceImplementer` is the function used to lookup the address of the contract implementing a given interface for a specific address. It takes as first parameter the address for which to lookup the implementation and as second parameter the hash of the interface name to be queried.

If the interface is four bytes long and part of ERC165, then the registry will first look in its cache and then directly with the specified address---using ERC165---to lookup if the address implements the interface. If it does, then the address itself is returned otherwise the \gls{0x} is returned. With ERC165, since it does not support the concept of proxy contract, only the address passed as parameter or the \gls{0x} can be returned and if the address passed is not a contract then the returned value is always the \gls{0x}.

Furthermore in this scenario, if the lookup is called as part of a transaction and the cache is uninitialized, then the cache will automatically be updated. This implies a slight increase in gas cost for the first transaction, however future transaction will consume less gas as they will rely on the cache.

If the interface is a full thirty-two bytes long, then the function will return the address from an internal double mapping. This double mapping relies on the internal `mapping` type of Solidity which returns the default value for the type of the mapping value if the key is not present. As the mapping value is of type `address` it returns the \gls{0x} by default if there is no entry in the double mapping for a given address and interface hash. If a specific address is present however then this address is returned. Overall this means that if the returned address is the \gls{0x} then the given address does not have a contract implementing the interface, if the address is different then it is the address implementing the interface for the given address. If the given address and the address implementing the interface are the same, then it means the given address which implements the interface for itself.

### Setting An Interface

The `setInterfaceImplementer` function is used to set the address of the contract implementing the given interface for the given address. For obvious security reasons, not every address is allowed to set an interface implementation for a given address. Only the manager of an address is allowed to set the implementation of an interface for the given address. By default every address is its own manager but each address can set another address as its manager using the `setManager` function described in section \ref{setmanager}.

The figure \ref{fig:erc820SelfRegister} illustrate the basic use case of Alice, a regular account, deploying a contract named Carols which sets itself as being its own implementation of the `ERC777TokensRecipient` interface---i.e. the interface for the `tokensReceived` hook required by ERC777 for contracts to receive tokens. Notice in this example, as well as all the following ones, the call to `getManager` which is used internally to check if the `setInterfaceImplementer` call originates from the actual manager (of Carlos in this instance).

\input{img/erc820SelfRegister.tex}

Furthermore to avoid addresses settings random contracts as interface implementers for themselves, if the address for which to set the implementation and the address of the implementer differ, then the ERC820 registry requires for the implementer to implement the `ERC820ImplementerInterface` interface which consist of a single function: `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` detailed in section \ref{the-canimplementinterfaceforaddress-function-and-the-accept-magic} below.

#### The `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` Function And The "Accept Magic" Return Value

This function must be implemented by the implementer of some (other) interface to let other (specific) accounts use the implementer for themselves. The function gives an opportunity for the implementer to reject being set as the implementer for an unexpected address. The function is called every time some account tries to set the implementer. The figure \ref{fig:erc820ProxyRegister} shows a typical example of this feature being used by Alice, a regular account who deploys a contract Carlos and then sets Carlos as the implementer of the `ERC777TokensRecipient` for her.

\input{img/erc820ProxyRegister.tex}

As an example which is drawn in figure \ref{fig:erc820erc820StealImplementer}, if a user creates an implementation of the `ERC777TokensRecipient` for its specific address and the implementation is not able to handle the `ERC777TokensRecipient` for anyone but the expected address of the user, then the `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` must only return the "accept magic" value for the expected address. If not another account could abuse the implementation. When the implementer does not return the "accept magic" value, the registry reverts transaction, stopping the attempt to commandeer the implementer.

\pagebreak

\input{img/erc820StealImplementer.tex}

This "accept magic" value is actually the `keccak256` hash of the string `ERC820_ACCEPT_MAGIC` which is `0xf2294ee098a1b324b4642584abe5e09f1da5661c8f789f3ce463b4645bd10aef`. This value is considered as `true` and any other value is considered as `false`. This may appear as a strange way of approaching the problem and that a boolean---which is supported by Solidity---may be a much better approach, albeit the reason for this approach is to avoid a Solidity quirk which might return a false positive when calling `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` on the implementer. In the case where the implementer contract fails to implement the `ERC820ImplementerInterface` and the `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` function but implements a fallback function which does not throw, then in this case the fallback function will be called instead of the lacking `canImplementInterfaceForAddress` function and the fallback function will return `1` which is coerced to `true`.

The registry of course does not allow settings an ERC165 interface, this is done entirely on the contract itself by following ERC165.

### `setManager`

By default, every address is its own manager which means it is the only address allowed to set the implementer of an interface for itself. This role can be transferred to another address---there can only be one manager for any address at any given moment in time. The `setManager`---obviously---can only be called by the manager itself. Therefore only the manager can transfer its role to another address. Furthermore if the current manager sets the \gls{0x} address, this is interpreting as reseting the address itself as its own manager. If an address does not want to have a manager, then it can always set the manager to some address made of a "deterministic" pattern such as `0xdeaddeaddeaddeaddeaddeaddeaddeaddeaddead`.

A common use case is illustrated in figure \ref{fig:erc820DelegateRegister}, where Alice deploys a contract Carlos. Carlos sets within its constructor its owner (Alice) as its manager. Alice can then specifiy which interface Carlos implements for her as well as for itself (in this case `ERC777TokensRecipient`).

\input{img/erc820DelegateRegister.tex}

### `getManager`

The function is a simple getter to get the address of the manager for a given address. While the address is its own manager by default, the address of the manager can be updated to another address. Hence this functions allows to obtain the actual address of the manager regardless of whether the address of the manager has been changed or not. Its use can be observed through figures \ref{fig:erc820SelfRegister}, \ref{fig:erc820ProxyRegister}, \ref{fig:erc820StealImplementer}, and \ref{fig:erc820DelegateRegister} where it is used to verify that the address from which the `setInterfaceImplementer` call originate is the manager of the address for which to set the interface.


### `interfaceHash`

The `interfaceHash` is merely provided as a convenience. It returns the `keccak256` hash of the interface name which is passed as a string. Ideally, the hash should be computed off-chain and passed directly to the registry, however in the case where this might not be possible, the `interfaceHash` is available to hash the string and return the correct hash.

### ERC165-specific functions

The following functions are specific to ERC165 and are used internally by the `getInterfaceImplementer` function if the interface hash is a four bytes ERC165 interface hash to figure out if the given contract does implement the interface.

#### `implementsERC165Interface`

The `implementsERC165Interface` function is the function called by `getInterfaceImplementer` function for ERC165 to find out if a contract implements the given ERC165 interface. It uses the internal cache of the ERC820 library and only actually check if the interface directly with the contract if the cache is not set.

#### `implementsERC165InterfaceNoCache`

The `implementsERC165InterfaceNoCache` function should returns the same result as the `implementsERC165Interface` function but internally the formed does not use the cache at all and is actually used by the latter to set the value in the cache if it is not set.


#### `updateERC165Cache`

The `updateERC165Cache` is called within the `implementsERC165Interface` to set the cache value if it is not set. Internally this function uses the value returned by the `implementsERC165InterfaceNoCache` function.

Moreover the `updateERC165Cache` can be called directly> For example if the contract was not deployed and the registry cached (rightfully at the time) that the address of the contract did not implement the interface, this function can be called after the deployment of the contract to update the cache to reflect that the contract is now deployed and implements the interface. The same applies the other way around, if a contract self destructs, then this function can be called to reflect that this address does not implement any interface anymore.

## Keyless Deployment And Unique Contract Address Across All Chains

It is paramount for the ERC820 registry not to be controlled by anyone. If any account has control over the registry, this account may manipulate or potentially destroy the registry. Hence the registry must be deployed from an address from which not only no one controls the private key but everyone must also easily be convinced of the fact that no one controls the private key.

There is nice---and somewhat unknown---feature of Ethereum which we can take advantage of to achieve this goal: keyless deployment using a single-use Ethereum address for which no one has the key. This method is also referred to as "Nick's method" as an acknowledgment to Nick Johnson who suggested this method for ERC820.

In order to understand how this method works, one must first comprehend how a transaction is signed in Ethereum and how the address of the sender---which is not explicitly part of the transaction---is recovered. In Ethereum, the transactions are signed using \gls{ecdsa}. To send a verified transaction, one must generate a message and sign it using their private key. This signed message is the authorization to spend a specific amount of ethers from the account. Precisely, this signed message is made up of the following components forming an Ethereum transaction: the `to` value (i.e. the recipient), the `value` (i.e. the amount of weis to spend), the `gas` (i.e. the gas limit or the maximum amount of gas the transaction is allowed to spend), the `gasPrice`, (i.e the price of each unit of gas in weis), a nonce and the `data` field. The signing number returns an Ethereum signature composed of three numbers, commonly referred to as `r`, `s`, `v`. The numbers $r$ and $s$ are defined by the \gls{ecdsa} algorithm and define the coordinate on the curve---extremely roughly $r$ is the x-value and $s$ is the y-value of the coordinate.


The value $v$ is defined in the Ethereum Yellow Paper as $v\in[27, 28]$, more precisely:

> It is assumed that $v$ is the 'recovery identifier'. The recovery identifier is a 1 byte value specifying the parity and finiteness of the coordinates of the curve point for which $r$ is the x-value; this value is in the range of $[27, 30]$, however we declare the upper two possibilities, representing infinite values, invalid. The value $27$ represents an even $y$ value and $28$ represents an odd $y$ value \citep[][Appendix F]{yellowpaper}.

Ethereum defines a function knows as `ecrecover` which given the message hash and the three numbers `r`, `s` and `v` is able to recover the public key and thus the address of the spender which signed the transaction. Obviously because only the corresponding private key could generate valid values for `r`, `s` and `v` such that it results in the correct public key and therefore the correct address.

Single use functions come from the answer to a simple question: What if someone generate a valid transaction such as a signed message to send ether to a specific address and then use some random values for `r`, `s` and `v` which are hard coded and not derived from some private key? Now the hash of the message and the `r`, `s` and `v` values can be paased to `ecrecover` to obtain the origin address for this transaction. Moreover, the transaction can be broadcasted on the Ethereum network and if the origin address has the funds they will be transferred! Thus we have just achieved a transfer of ethers from an address for which we do not know the private key.

Before being thrown into widespread panic that your funds are insecure and may be spent by anyone able to craft a transaction, it is very important to note that this method does not provide any control to select the origin address for the transaction. The origin address is derived using \gls{ecdsa} which is cryptographically secure and generating a transaction this way---without knowing the private key---for a specific origin address would require to brute-force multiple values for `r` and `s` until values which derive to the desired address are found. (`v` is defined as $v\in[27, 28]$, hence it is trivial to cover this key space.) This is equivalent to brute-forcing the private key and then using it to generate the correct `r` and `s` values, and brute-forcing the private key is today computationally infeasible.

Nonetheless, this process of generating transaction is useful for single-use address. Essentially it is computationally infeasible and probabilistically extremely unlikely that a second transaction for the same address can be generated. But we manage to generate a single transaction for this address and if we send enough ether to this address (including ether to pay for the gas) before broadcasting our transaction, once the transaction is broadcast the ether from that address will be spent and credited to the address we set as recipient in the transaction.

Nick Johnson describes this method and provides an example on how this method can be taken advantage of in a nested or recursive fashion to send ether to a large amount of addresses from a \gls{multisig} \citep{johnson2016howtosend} while only signing a single message containing a series of transaction---and this can be done regardless of the number of final recipients. Essentially a series of transaction are generated, one per final recipient and they are then put in batch into different signed messages which are signed. The origin addresses for those signed messages are then derived and the process repeats, generating transactions to send ether to those derived addresses which are batched and so on until there is only a single batch in a single signed message and thus a single address to derive.

> TODO add picture

Next this tree of transactions is shared off-chain with the owners of the \gls{multisig} wallet and they can inspect all the transactions, then  once convinced they only have to approve a single transaction from their \gls{multisig} to the origin address of the root of the transactions and then broadcast each level of the transaction in order to have the ether sent to all the recipients automatically.

In the case of the ERC820 registry we do not need to send ether or tokens to multiple addresses of course but the same technique may be adapted to generate a single transaction to deploy the contract for which the private key controlling the address is not known---in other words a keyless deployment using "Nick's method". A second advantage of this technique is that the address of a contract is deterministic. It is computed using the address from which the transaction originated and the nonce of the transaction. Specifically, the address is the `keccak256` hash of the owner's address and the nonce, rlp-encoded with the first twelve bytes truncated. This means that the address of the contract is know in advanced and the address will be the same across all chains, thus solving the issue of looking up the address of the registry.

To build this transaction we all we need is to set the correct values in our message. Since this is a contract deployment the `to` address must be the \gls{0x} and the `value` should be zero as we do not want to send ether to the contract and the nonce should be zero as well since this is the first (and only) transaction from the given address. The `data` is the compiled bytecode needed to deploy the contract and all that remains is the gas and gas price. The gas consumption can easily be computed using the `eth_estimateGas` call since we know the code which will be executed as part of the transaction. The gas price is a bit more tricky. If set too low the transaction may never be picked up by miners and sit in the mempool until it is evicted. Setting the gas price to high and the deployment will be very costly. At this point in time since the gas price is part of the signed message, adjusting the gas price will modify the message and result in a new hash, thus changing the origin address of the transaction and by extension the address of the contract. The \gls{eip}1014 propose the creation of a `CREATE2` opcode expressly to handle this case. The `CREATE2` opcode is able to only consider the origin address, the actual initialization code and some salt value \citep{eip1014}. Sadly it is not yet available at this time.

Lastly, all we have left is to set the `r`, `s` and `v` values. The value for `v` is trivially set to $27$. The value for `r` is set to `0x79BE667EF9DCBBAC55A06295CE870B07029BFCDB2DCE28D959F2815B16F81798` and most importantly, `s` must be set to the value  
`0x0aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa`. This is a predictable value, to convince everyone that no one holds the private key for the address derived from the transaction.

We are now all set and with the above value we can generate the contract deployment transaction and derive its sender, then we must send enough ether to the address, and then broadcast the transaction.

> TODO add actual values

### Vanity Address

A vanity address is the equivalent of a vanity license plate for addresses on a blockchain. One of the first notion of vanity address comes from a utility names "Vanitygen" which is a command line tool to generate a Bitcoin address matching a specific pattern by using brute-force \citep{vanitygen}. This of course does not allow to obtain the private key for a specific address but it allows to obtain an address starting or ending with a few specific characters.

Because there is only one specific address for the ERC820 registry and because this address is the same for all chains, we all agreed it would be a nice touch to have an address starting with `0x820` for the registry.

There is another issue with those vanity generators, of course "Vanitygen" is for Bitcoin but similar tools exist for Ethereum too. However those tools generate the private keys for regular accounts and the whole reason of using keyless deployment is to not have the keys to control the registry. Thus those programs do not fulfill our needs. Nonetheless, we can keep the idea behind vanity generators and use the process for keyless deployment to easily come up with a simple script which generate addresses for our contract.

Indeed, we know that if we change any of the field of the deployment transaction then we change the hash of the signed message and if we change the hash message we change the origin address returned by `ecrecover`. If we change the origin address, we also change the address of the deployed contract which is computed in a deterministic fashion from the origin address and the nonce. The only question which remains is which field can be safely changed in the transaction. The `to` must be the \gls{0x}, the `nonce` must be $0$, setting a `value` other than $0$ is literally the equivalent of burning ether and the gas price and gas limit are set specifically to make sure the transaction does not consume too little gas and that it will be expensive enough to be considered. The only remaining value which may be changed is the `data` which contains the initialization code for the registry contract.

This initialization code is automatically generated by a compile and should not be modified. Nevertheless, the initialization code contains a copy of the bytecode of the registry and while we do not want to modify the actual code of the registry, there is one fact which can help us: bytecode compiled using `solc`, the Solidity compiler includes in the bytecode, the hash of the metadata for the compiled contract as return by the standard output of `solc` \citepalias[see][Encoding of the Metadata Hash in the Bytecode]{soldoc}. The reason for this choice is to be able to link the metadata to the specific instance of the contract.

Among other fields, this metadata can contain the original source code of the contract. And this is the key point, we can modify a random comment at the beginning of the source file. This will modify the content field of the metadata which will result in a different hash for the metadata which will result in a slightly different contract bytecode which will result in a slightly different deployment code and thus a slightly different data field of the transaction and finally in a different hash for the transaction or message. Hence we have managed to change the message hash thus changing the spender address and by extension the contract address.

```{caption="The bash script used to generate a vanity address for the ERC820 regsitry." label="lst:minaddrs" language=bash}
#! /bin/bash

rm -rf tmp
mkdir tmp
for i in {0..15}; do
  mkdir -p "./tmp/${i}/contracts"
  cp contracts/ERC820Registry.sol "./tmp/${i}/contracts/"
done

for VALUE in `seq 0 16 32768`; do
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: ${VALUE}/1" \
    tmp/0/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+1))/1" \
    tmp/1/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+2))/1" \
    tmp/2/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+3))/1" \
    tmp/3/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+4))/1" \
    tmp/4/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+5))/1" \
    tmp/5/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+6))/1" \
    tmp/6/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+7))/1" \
    tmp/7/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+8))/1" \
    tmp/8/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+9))/1" \
    tmp/9/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+10))/1" \
    tmp/10/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+11))/1" \
    tmp/11/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+12))/1" \
    tmp/12/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+13))/1" \
    tmp/13/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+14))/1" \
    tmp/14/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol
  sed -i '' -Ee "s/^\/\/ IV:.+$/\/\/ IV: $((${VALUE}+15))/1" \
    tmp/15/contracts/ERC820Registry.sol

  pushd ./tmp/0 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/1 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/2 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/3 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  wait
  pushd ./tmp/4 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/5 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/6 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/7 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  wait
  pushd ./tmp/8 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/9 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/10 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/11 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  wait
  pushd ./tmp/12 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/13 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/14 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  pushd ./tmp/15 > /dev/null
  npx solcpiler -i ./contracts/ERC820Registry.sol \
    --solc-version="v0.4.24+commit.e67f0147" \
    --insert-file-names none --output-artifacts-dir artifacts  --quiet &
  popd > /dev/null
  wait

  node mine-info.js "${VALUE}" | tee -a addrs.txt

  rm -rf tmp/0/build tmp/0/artifacts \
    tmp/1/build tmp/1/artifacts \
    tmp/2/build tmp/2/artifacts \
    tmp/3/build tmp/3/artifacts \
    tmp/4/build tmp/4/artifacts \
    tmp/5/build tmp/5/artifacts \
    tmp/6/build tmp/6/artifacts \
    tmp/7/build tmp/7/artifacts \
    tmp/8/build tmp/8/artifacts \
    tmp/9/build tmp/9/artifacts \
    tmp/10/build tmp/10/artifacts \
    tmp/11/build tmp/11/artifacts \
    tmp/12/build tmp/12/artifacts \
    tmp/13/build tmp/13/artifacts \
    tmp/14/build tmp/14/artifacts \
    tmp/15/build tmp/15/artifacts

done

```

The listing \ref{lst:minaddrs} shows the rather crude bash implementation which was used to modify and recompile the ERC820 registry contract with a different value in a comment and the print all the values for which the contract address begins with `0x820`. This implementation tries sixteen different possibilities per iteration and call a Javascript program on line 97---shown in in the listing \ref{lst:mineinfo} program---which is capable of finding the address of the contract and print it together with the value if the address begins with a `0x820` for the sixteen contracts at each iteration of the loop.


```{caption="The Javascript program called by the ERC820 Vanity generator to find the address of a version of the compiled contract." label="lst:mineinfo" language=JavaScript}
const EthereumTx = require('ethereumjs-tx');
const EthereumUtils = require('ethereumjs-util');

const offeset = parseInt(process.argv[2]);
const rawTx = {
    nonce: 0,
    gasPrice: 100000000000,
    gasLimit: 800000,
    value: 0,
    data: undefined,
    v: 27,
    r: '0x79BE667EF9DCBBAC55A06295CE870B07029BFCDB2DCE28D959
F2815B16F81798',
    s: '0x0aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
aaaaaaaaaaaaaa'
};

for (let i = 0; i < 16; i++) {
  const code = '0x' + require(`./tmp/${i}/artifacts/ERC820Registry.json`).compilerOutput.evm.bytecode.object;
  rawTx.data = code
  const tx = new EthereumTx(rawTx);
  const contractAddr = EthereumUtils.toChecksumAddress(
    '0x' + EthereumUtils.generateAddress('0x' + tx.getSenderAddress().toString('hex'), 0 ).toString('hex')
  );
  if (contractAddr.startsWith('0x820')) {
    console.log(`${offeset + i} -> ${contractAddr}`);
  }
}

```
