# Conclusion

In this we have focused on tokens on the Ethereum blockchain, the shortcomings of the current token standard, and the creation of ERC777, a new and improved token standard. In the first part, we briefly began by introducing the Ethereum ecosystem, the Solidity language and a delination of the formats for diagrams based on \gls{uml} sequence diagrams. We then followed by defining the concept of tokens with respect of the Ethereum blockchain, describing the standardization process for Ethereum---required to establish a standard---and provide a comparison of the existing standard and standard proposals related to tokens. Afterwards, we present an overview of the ERC20 token standard in chapter \ref{erc20-token-standard}. The overview includes description of the standard, a detailed explanation of the mechanism used to transfer tokens---complete with code examples of known implementations and diagrams to help visualizing the process and a list elaborating on the drawbacks and limitations of the standard as well as a known attack which can be used to steal tokens.

Subsequently we introduce the new ERC777 token standard and the ERC820 pseudo-introspection registry in chapters \ref{erc777-a-new-advanced-token-standard-for-ethereum-tokens} and \ref{erc820-pseudo-introspection-registry-contract}. In the first of those two chapters, we describe the ERC777 standard thoroughly, including the new concepts of ERC777---operators and hooks---, the various mechanism to send, mint, and burn tokens, the data parameters, the compatibility with ERC20, the community reception and the reference implementation. Over the second of those chapters we explain the process from which the ERC820 registry originated, the reason behind the separation of ERC777 and ERC820, the interaction and compatibility between ERC165 and ERC820, the features of the registry such as managers and lastly the unique deployment method and how the vanity address of the registry has been generated.

In chapter \ref{competing-token-standards}, we provide a comparison between the previously described ERC777 standard proposal and two of the most popular token-related proposal: the ERC223 token standard and the ERC827 Token Standard (ERC20 Extension). We go over the different approaches---with respect to ERC777---taken by these standard to solve the issues of ERC20, and the issues with those approaches including the known vulnerabilities they contain.

Finally in chapters \ref{the-state-of-tooling-in-the-ethereum-ecosystem} and \ref{future-research-and-work}, we describe first how the lack of maturity of certain tools affected the development of ERC777 and ERC820 as well as the opportunity it provided to contribute back to tools such as `solcpiler` to not only help with the development of the work described in this thesis but moreover to offer a better tool for the rest of the community. Second, we enumerate the various tasks which need to be done next for ERC777 to become successful, the work which will have to be done to help the community, implement, interact and use ERC777 tokens, and some external tools which can profit to ERC777 as well as other Ethereum projects.

Overall, we have shown the limitations of the ERC20 token standard and the current token implementation. Based on those limitation we propose ERC777 a new and advanced token standard which not only solves the issues of ERC20 but offer new exciting features, the ERC820 registry which can be used by other standards and \glspl{dapp} without ERC777. Finally, we outline the drawbacks of competing proposals, showcase the contributions made to other parts of the Ethereum ecosystem during the development of ERC777 and offer a view of the next steps taken to finalize and promote the ERC777 token standard.
